Developer Tools week 3 day 1 update (#56)
microsoft/win-student-devs: docs/30DaysOfPWA/dev-tools/01.md

---

## Introduction

Hello! For today’s post on the [30 Days of PWA](https://aka.ms/learn-pwa/30Days-blog) series, we will be getting started with some new tooling from the [PWABuilder Project](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-3.1/github.com/pwa-builder/PWABuilder)! The PWABuilder team has been working on tools for developers at any step of the building process, from starting a brand new PWA to packaging your existing PWA for the app stores. In this article, we will focus on [PWA Studio](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-3.1/pwa-studio), a new VSCode Extension from the PWABuilder project, and [the PWA Starter](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-3.1/github.com/pwa-builder/pwa-starter), also from the PWABuilder team, a codebase template to help you get started with building new PWAs.

## Getting Started + Demo

> Let's start building a new Progressive Web App using PWA Studio! PWA Studio's `Start a new App` feature creates your app using [the PWA Starter](https://github.com/pwa-builder/pwa-starter).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start building a new Progressive Web App using PWA Studio! PWA Studio's `Start a new App` feature creates your app using [the PWA Starter](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-3.1/github.com/pwa-builder/pwa-starter).
```

> 1. First, if you have not installed PWA Studio yet, install it from the [VSCode Marketplace](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-3.1/pwa-studio).

Reviewer 2: I feel like the article needs to say, before this point, that PWA Studio is a VS Code extension. It comes a bit out of the blue here.
So, perhaps in the previous paragraph:

`Let's start building a new Progressive Web App using PWA Studio! PWA Studio is a VS Code extension  and has a **Start a new App** feature that creates your app using ....`

> 2. Now that you have PWA Studio installed, tap the PWABuilder Icon on the left side of VSCode

Reviewer 2: I suggest replacing `tap` (here and in other places of this article) with `click`.

Click is a widely known term that even people who use assistive technologies know how to translate to the equivalent input method they're using. I think this is a much more natural way to guide people in following a set of interactions with software interface.

![The PWABuilder icon on the left side of VSCode](_media/icon-on-left.png)

3. You should now see a `Start new PWA` button in the bottom bar of VSCode. Tap this button to start generating a PWA.

![The start new pwa button can be found in the bottom left](_media/start-new-pwa.png)

4. Enter your respository name when propmted, this is normally the name of your app.

5. Your PWA will be generated using the Starter and all of your dependencies will be installed!

> 6. At this point, you are now ready to start coding! Tap `F5` or tap `Run` and `Start Debugging` at the top of VSCode. Your new PWA will now open in dev mode, with auto-reload, in its own App window. Enabling you to build your PWA in an app-first manner.

Reviewer 2: `Tap F5` should probably be `Press F5` here.

![Your new app will open in its own app window!](_media/new-app.png)

> ## Under the hood

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Under the Hood
```

### PWA Starter

![The PWA Starter Github homepage](_media/pwa-starter.png)

[The PWA Starter](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-3.1/github.com/pwa-builder/pwa-starter) is a code template, similar to what tools like create-react-app or the Angular CLI can generate.

With the PWA Starter, you get an app that:
- Has no build system to set up and no boilerplate code to add. Everything is included out of the box.
- Has a Service Worker system using [Workbox](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-3.1/developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox)
- Scores close to 100 on Lighthouse, out of the box

> - Using the [Fluent Web Components](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-3.1/docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fluent-ui/web-components), you can build native looking PWAs on Windows

Reviewer 2: To be more consistent with other bullet points:

```suggestion
- Uses the [Fluent Web Components](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-3.1/docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fluent-ui/web-components) to build native looking PWAs on Windows
```

- Has everything needed to be installable in the browser
- Is ready to be packaged for the app stores using [PWABuilder](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-3.1/www.pwabuilder.com)

### PWA Studio

![The PWA Studio extension running in VSCode](_media/pwa-studio.png)

PWA Studio is an extension that brings everything you need to build PWAs to [VSCode](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-3.1/code.visualstudio.com). When you [install PWA Studio](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-3.1/pwa-studio), you can:
-	Start building a new PWA in seconds using the PWABuilder pwa-starter.

> -	Learn how to publish your app to the Web with Azure Static Web Apps

Reviewer 2: Maybe link Azure Static Web Apps to https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/app-service/static/ for people who have never heard of it.

> -	Add a Web Manifest and Service Worker to your existing web app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-	Add a Web App Manifest and Service Worker to your existing web app
```

---

## Introduction

> Hello! For today’s post on the [30 Days of PWA](https://aka.ms/learn-pwa/30Days-blog) series, we will be getting started with some new tooling from the [PWABuilder Project](https://github.com/pwa-builder/PWABuilder)! The PWABuilder team has been working on new tools for developers at any step of the building process, from starting a brand new PWA to packging your existing PWA for the app stores; [PWA Studio](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=PWABuilder.pwa-studio) and [the PWA Starter](https://github.com/pwa-builder/pwa-starter).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Hello! For today’s post on the [30 Days of PWA](https://aka.ms/learn-pwa/30Days-blog) series, we will be getting started with some new tooling from the [PWABuilder Project](https://github.com/pwa-builder/PWABuilder)! The PWABuilder team has been working on tools for developers at any step of the building process, from starting a brand new PWA to packaging your existing PWA for the app stores: [PWA Studio](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=PWABuilder.pwa-studio) and [the PWA Starter](https://github.com/pwa-builder/pwa-starter).
```

### PWA Studio

![The PWA Studio extension running in VSCode](_media/pwa-studio.png)

> PWA Studio is a [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) extension that makes VSCode the BEST platform for building PWAs. [Install PWA Studio](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=PWABuilder.pwa-studio) and you can:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
PWA Studio is an extension that makes [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) the **best** platform for building PWAs. When you [install PWA Studio](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=PWABuilder.pwa-studio), you can:
```

-	Start building a new PWA, with all the best practices, excellent developer experience and exceptional performance    that you expect, in seconds using the PWABuilder pwa-starter.
-	Learn how to publish your app to the Web with Azure Static Web Apps
-	Add a Web Manifest and Service Worker to your existing web app
-	Package your PWA for the Microsoft Store, Google Play, and Apple App Store
-	Generate Icons for your PWA
-	Validate that your PWA is installable in the browser and is ready to publish to the app stores

> -	Learn more about the features of the Web Manifest to enable new features in your PWA

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
-	Learn more about using the Web App Manifest to enable new features in your PWA
```

> -	Use our snippets to quickly and easily implement native features that can improve the User Experience of your PWA.

Reviewer 4: I am generally biased against terms like "best," "easiest," and their ilk. I also wonder if Justin should preface the whole piece with a disclaimer that he works on PWA Builder.

> -	Use our snippets to quickly and easily implement native features that can improve the User Experience of your PWA.

Reviewer: I think Justin is just that passionate about the PWABuilder tool series. 🤣

> -	Use our snippets to quickly and easily implement native features that can improve the User Experience of your PWA.

Author: LOL. I agree about terms like "best", "easiest" etc. Can remove those. Also, I can totally add that disclaimer if I legit should lol. Let me go back through the post and see if I can lower the sales pitch'ness 😅

### PWA Starter

![The PWA Starter Github homepage](_media/pwa-starter.png)

> [The PWA Starter](https://github.com/pwa-builder/pwa-starter) is a code template (similar to what tools like create-react-app or the Angular CLI can generate) that gives you everything, yes everything, you need to build a high quality PWA. Tired of having to:

Reviewer 3: Also advertisement-ey

- Decide what framework to use?
- Figure out Service Workers?
- Figure out Web Manifests?
- Decided what UI library to use?
- Set up a build system for the billionth time?

> The PWA Starter handles all of this for you! Using feedback from the community and our own experiences, we have put together the group of libraries and tools that WE have found work great and are production ready, but also follow our principles of simplicity and using the full power of the web platform.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The PWA Starter handles all of this for you! Using feedback from the community and our own experiences, we have put together the group of libraries and tools that we have found work great and are production ready, but also follow our principles of simplicity and using the full power of the web platform.
```

With the PWA Starter, you get an app that:
- Has no build system to set up and no boilerplate code to add. Everything is included out of the box.
- Has a Service Worker system using [Workbox](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/)

> - Scores close to 100 on Lighthouse out of the box

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Scores close to 100 on Lighthouse, out of the box
```

- Using the [Fluent Web Components](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/fluent-ui/web-components/), you can build native looking PWAs on Windows
- Has everything needed to be installable in the browser
- Is ready to be packaged for the app stores using [PWABuilder](https://www.pwabuilder.com/)

and all with just a few button clicks 😊.

## Getting Started + Demo

Let's start building a new Progressive Web App using PWA Studio! PWA Studio's `Start a new App` feature creates your app using the PWA Starter, which means you get everything we just talked about from just a button click! 

> 1. First, if you have not installed PWA Studio yet, install it from the [VSCode Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=PWABuilder.pwa-studio).

Reviewer 3: Maybe we could add a note that the starter is a template, and if they don't use VS Code, you can also copy the template over for use in another editor.

Author: Yeah good point, I am leading users towards the VSCode extension as the way to generate apps for a reason, but I much agree that it should be clear its just a template repo too

2. Now that you have PWA Studio installed, tap the PWABuilder Icon on the left side of VSCode

![The PWABuilder icon on the left side of VSCode](_media/icon-on-left.png)

3. You should now see a `Start new PWA` button in the bottom bar of VSCode. Tap this button to start generating a PWA.

![The start new pwa button can be found in the bottom left](_media/start-new-pwa.png)

4. Enter your respository name when propmted, this is normally the name of your app.

5. Your PWA will be generated using the Starter and all of your dependencies will be installed!

> 6. At this point, you are now ready to start coding! Tap `f5` or tap `Run` and `Start Debugging` at the top of VSCode. Your new PWA will now open in dev mode, with auto-reload, in its own App window. Enabling you to build your PWA in an app-first manner.

Reviewer 3: "App-first" threw me here since we haven't seen it used yet. I know what you mean, but readers might not. Not sure if there's a way to quickly elaborate on this without messing with the flow.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. At this point, you are now ready to start coding! Tap `F5` or tap `Run` and `Start Debugging` at the top of VSCode. Your new PWA will now open in dev mode, with auto-reload, in its own App window. Enabling you to build your PWA in an app-first manner.
```

![Your new app will open in its own app window!](_media/new-app.png)

## Under the hood

So, how does all this work? 

> PWA Studio uses `Git` (and will warn you if you don't have Git) to fork the latest version of the PWA Starter and then installs the needed dependencies using `npm`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PWA Studio uses `Git` to fork the latest version of the PWA Starter and then installs the needed dependencies using `npm`. If you're missing either of these tools, PWA Studio will show a warning and direct you towards getting them installed.
```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
PWA Studio uses Git (and will warn you if you don't have Git) to fork the latest version of the PWA Starter and then installs the needed dependencies using `npm`. 
```

Git is not a command in this context, but it seems like npm could be.

PWA Starter uses the following libraries, with a ready-to-go build:

- [**lit**](https://lit-element.polymer-project.org/): Our framework of choice. Lit gives us a way to write code that feels remarkably familiar to popular frameworks like React but that compiles down to browser native Web Components with a tiny runtime that provides things such as performant asynchronous rendering. Put plainly, Lit provides that great developer experience that we may be used too but without any sacrifice in either load-time performance or runtime performance.

> - [Vaadin Router](https://vaadin.github.io/router/vaadin-router/demo/#vaadin-router-getting-started-demos): For routing, we use the Vaadin router. It is built with web components, has a tiny package size and all the features you expect from modern routers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [**Vaadin Router**](https://vaadin.github.io/router/vaadin-router/demo/#vaadin-router-getting-started-demos): For routing, we use the Vaadin router. It is built with web components, has a tiny package size and all the features you expect from modern routers.
```

- [**Rollup**](https://www.rollupjs.org/guide/en/): Rollup is a &quot;bundler&quot; or build tool that will make working with NPM modules easy while also helping ensure our code is ready for production. It allows us to do things such as minify our code, run Workbox (another tool I will introduce next) and other build steps.
- [**Workbox**](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/): Workbox is a tool that makes working with [**Service Workers**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API) easy!
- [**TypeScript**](https://www.typescriptlang.org/): TypeScript gives us features such as auto complete in our editors that helps make the development process easier, along with being perfect for working in a team because you can provide types for your APIs, making your code almost self-documenting.

For more information on the PWA Starter, check out [its documentation](https://github.com/pwa-builder/pwa-starter/wiki).

And that was how we use the new PWA Studio VSCode Extension and the PWA Starter to start building a PWA with just a few button clicks!

> In our [next post](02.md), we'll dive into converting our existing website to a PWA!

Reviewer 4: This link will need updating.

Author: @beth-panx  is this something I need to update?

Reviewer: Nope this looks good.
